So in this video and the next few videos, we will work on the profile screen.
Now the profile screen is different from my post screen in that the profile screen allows us to update
the user information.
So the way we get to the profile screen is from the mid post screen.
By clicking on this outline button that will take us to the profile screen, we have an on click here
that we will update.
All right.
So let's get started.
We're going to create the profile screen, and for me, that kind of looks like authentication, right?
That relates to user information updating user data.
So I'm going to put it in authentication, this kind of a judgment call.
You don't have to put it there.
You can put it in Maine, but I want to put it here.
So I'm going to say profile screen as a file and I'm going to create the composable font profile screen.
Now this one, of course, will take a nav controller and a VM of type ID view model.
OK, so we have our profile screened before we start filling out this information here.
Let's go to our main activity and added to our destinations.
So here I'm going to have an object of type profile destination screening of the route is going to be
profiled.
OK, and I'm going to just add the composable here composable destination screen, dot profile, dart
route and of course, profile screen nav controller and VM view model.
Now, let's add the navigation, so I'm going to go to the My Post screen here in on in outline button.
I'm going to say navigate to I have the nav controller.
And the destination screen.
Dot profile.
OK, so I'm just going to move to navigation now, keep in mind, profile doesn't have a bottom navigation,
so it's a complete full screen.
All right.
Now profile screen, let's go ahead and start to implement the functionality for our profile screen.
So first of all, I'm going to use the is loading a flag in the AM.
So I'm going to say Val is loading equals vim dot in progress.
That's the one dot value.
And if is loading.
Then I'm going to simply display a common progress spinner else, I'm going to build my UI, so here
I want to have kind of two composer balls, one that handles state, which is this one.
And one that displays the information.
So I'm going to add here a composable fun profile content.
This will take a quite large number of parameters, so let's go ahead here and define some values.
So Val user data is going to be the dot user data dot value.
Then VAR name by.
Remember?
Remember savable?
Save a bull.
It's important that and here I have mutable state of.
User data.
The name.
Or if that is no an empty string now, this often happens.
This exception often happens simply because Android Studio doesn't know how to import a certain element.
So I'm going to import it manually import Android X decompose.
Dot runtime dot get value.
That's the one that is needed in court, set the value as well.
So for some reason, Android Studio has trouble with this particular import, so it needs to be there.
All right.
So I have my name now I'm going to add the username and bios.
I'm just going to duplicate that username and replace username here.
And then again, bio and then here we have bio.
OK, so now we have these elements, so now we can call the profile content.
Now, profile content requires a lot of parameters, so I have spent quite a bit of time to extract
all the required information from, you know, while building this course, I have extracted all the
state from profile content and placed it in the profile screen.
So here I'm going to add all the parameters that are required.
So first of all, vim of type, I give you model, then we have name of type string, we have user name
of type string and we have bio also of type string.
Now we will need a own name change functionality, so on.
Name change is going to be is going to take a string and give us a unit.
So that is a lambda and the same for username and bios.
So on user name change.
And on budget change, we need three lambdas for these changes so that we can actually update our data
here when we type something in the input boxes.
And then we need three other operations which are on save.
So when we want to save the information also is a lambda.
On back when we want to go back to the previous screen.
OK.
And on logout, since we will have a log out button on this screen.
OK, so these are the elements that we require, so now in profile content, we can go ahead and pass
all the parameters.
So the PM is going to be VMM view model, then name is going to be name, username is going to be username.
Bio is going to be bio.
Now I need on name change.
Is going to be name equals it.
OK.
And it's going to be very similar for on username change.
Username equals it's because we get a string passed to this function and then on bio change equals bio
equals it.
OK, so now in on safe, we don't actually have anything at the moment, OK, we need to create a function
in our view model, so we're going to leave this empty for now on back.
This is quite simple.
We're going to navigate to.
NAF controller.
And destination screen.
Dot my posts.
That's the on back and then on logout again, we don't have any functionality here, we need to implement
the logout function.
So we're going to leave this like that for now.
We're going to implement on save and on logout a bit later.
But now let's focus on the profile content.
So here I'm going to have Val Scroll St. equals, remember scroll state.
OK.
That's because I want my screen to be scrollable.
And here I'm going to have a column with a modifier equals modifier dot, vertical scroll, scroll state,
and then I'm going to add some padding that is going to be eight dpi.
OK.
Right, so I have my column now inside my column, I want to have at the top, I want to have a row
with a button back and a button safe.
So I'm going to implement a row.
That has a modifier equals modifier dot filled max with.
And the padding of eight deep.
Now, in addition to this modifier, I want to have a horizontal arrangement.
And arrangement, not space between.
So I want the back button to be on the left and the safe button to be on the right.
So I want some distance between those now in my row.
I have to text elements.
First one says back then has a modifier equals modifier clickable.
And here I have on back dot invoke.
OK.
And then I have another one text that says save and modifier equals modifier dot clickable on save dot
invoke.
OK, so that is my upper menu, let's say, with back and safe now right below this, I want to have
kind of a horizontal divider, a line that separates the top buttons from the rest of the elements.
OK, so here I'm going to have what I call a common divider, which we need to create, of course.
So we're going to create this in our common bits because we're going to use it in different places in
our code.
So I'm going to create here a composable fun common divider.
Takes no parameters, and we're going to simply add a divider.
Color is going to be color dot light gray.
We're going to have a thickness of one deep and a modifier.
With an alpha of zero, 0.3 F and a padding of top equals eight DP.
And bottom equals also S&P.
OK, that's our modifier, it's a simple, kind of transparent line that just kind of subtly creates
a division here.
OK, so import the divider.
Now what else do we need?
We need an image that we don't have at the moment.
So here we will allow the user to update their image to upload an image, right?
So we don't have that at the moment, we don't have the functionality.
So I'm just going to put a placeholder here.
I'm going to say user image and I'm going to create a column that has a modifier.
OK.
Dot.
I'm going to add a height of 200 dpi dot fill max width and I'm going to add a background of color dot
gray.
OK, so that's just basically a placeholder that later on we can replace with an image.
All right.
Below that, I'm going to have another common divider.
And below that, I will have a few rows of elements that we can up where we can update the user information,
right?
So I want to update the name, the user name and the bio.
So the first one is going to be wrote.
And I'm going to have a modifier equals modifier dot filled max with.
And dart padding that has a start of for deep and the end of.
For deep.
And also, I have a vertical alignment in this row, so I have vertical alignment, alignment dart center
vertically.
OK, so I have my row now inside, I have a text that says name.
With a modifier equals modifier dot width.
Of 100 deep and I will have a text field.
The value is going to be name.
Remember, this is the name that is passed here in the parameters of the function.
OK, and on value change I have on name change.
OK.
And I want to add a colors.
Element here.
That has a text field.
Defaults, dot, text, field colors.
OK.
Text field colors and inside here, I'm going to have background color equals color dot transparent
and I will have a text color.
Color dot black.
OK, so quite a lot of information here, but basically we have a name text and a text field where we
can input the name.
OK, now we have one of these rows, so let's add two more basically.
So I'm just going to copy this one and paste it here, and let's just update what we need.
So instead of name we have, username value is going to be username on value, change on username change,
and the colors are the same.
And let's add, I think here we have something quite similar.
Let me see.
All right.
So I'm going to add another row, so I have modifier filled next with with some padding.
OK, vertical alignment.
This one is going to be top.
OK, here I have bio.
And the width is going to be 100 deep now, textual value is going to be bio then on bio change.
And here we're going to add a few more elements because we want the this text field to be larger so
that we can have more room for to input our bio.
So we have on value change and we have colors.
Now we're going to add a single line equals false.
OK.
This is a multi line field, and then we're going to have a modifier equals modifier dot height of 150
dot dpi.
All right, so that is basically our bio field.
All right, so that's all there is to it.
And now we need to add the final row, which is going to be a simple log out button.
OK, so I'm going to have a row here with a modifier equals modifier dot fill max with.
And dart padding.
I'm going to add top and bottom, so top is going to be 16. deep and bottom also 16. DP, OK?
And also I have a horizontal.
Horizontal arrangement arrangement is going to be center.
Right.
So inside here, I'm just going to have a text that's going to say, log out.
And modifier equals modifier dot clickable.
On Logout Dot Invoke.
OK, we haven't said what we do in the logout, but we know that we have a parameter here that is on
log out.
So that's it.
Let's see if I've made any mistake building this UI, but hopefully you will see what it's going to
look like for the profile screen.
All right, so I am in the My Post page, and then if I click Edit Profile, then I have my profile
screen here, so I have a back button, which actually works because we've we've actually implemented
this functionality navigate to.
But if I click again, saved doesn't yet work and we have name, username and bio.
OK, keep in mind that these are pre-populated, so you do get some data here, but we can update the
information only.
OK, if we update, we will need to save and call the The View model to update the information.
But for now, that is not implemented.
OK, so we have also the log out button at the bottom that allows us to log out, which we will implement
shortly.
All right.
So that's it for this video in the next video, we're going to implement the functionality to actually
save this information on the view model site.
I'll see you there.